---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/3-layout-before-we-have-tik-manager-installed-in-uni/","dgShowFileTree":true}
---

Hi guys! Sooo the La salle IT team is very busy fixing printers I'm sure, so we're going to have to do layout work before we have TIK installed in the studio lab. ðŸ˜


To do this, only MIKEL will create folders for shots or environments, please ask MIKEL to create the folder for a shot or environment if you're going to jump in.

> [!tldr]
> `ENV` for recurring enviornments, 
> `SQ_010` for each sequence (SQ_`sequence`)
> `010_010` for each shot (`sequence`\_`shot`)
> `multi_010_020_030` for working on multiple shots in the same file, if it makes sense. (multi\_`shot1`\_`shot2`\_`shot3`)
> 
> Look in [the spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1lOtT2qIV9gh-iq-hGnrBZJuxu06pjj9PXdBp35X7ad8/edit?gid=1957661937#gid=1957661937) to see if the environment should be built per shot, or in the ENV folder.


The manual layout work will live in `MANUAL2\cg\03_shot\01_layout\`.

In that directory, you will find folders for each sequence `SQ_010`, `SQ_020` and so on.  You will also find a folder called `ENV`. 

-> IF an environment is seen in more than one shot, it should be built inside the `ENV\EnvironmentName` folder, name it `EvnironmentName_v001.ma` . Then, reference this file on every shot needed. 

Okay. Let's jump in a sequence folder, `SQ_010`. Inside, you should find some `multi` folder(s), and a folder per shot, `010_010`, `010_020`, etc.

-> IF you have some shots (a sub-sequence if you wanna call it that), that make sense to work on all the same file, you can use a `multi` folder,  with the naming convention explained in the Tldr.

-> If you work on a single shot, use the normal shot folders. 

-> If an environment only appears in one shot, (check the spreadsheet), create it in the layout file itself, be it the `multi`, or normal type.